Corel Painter 2016 lets you use audio from your
computer’s microphone or internal audio
to modify the look and feel of any brush.
For example, your brushstrokes may change
their appearance
in synch with streaming music.
Audio Expression allows you to link a variety of
brush controls to audio input.
To link brush effects to an audio input, choose
Window > Audio > Audio Settings Panel.
Enable the "Enable Audio Input" check box.
A pop-up window will appear with more
information on using  Audio Expression.
Now choose Window > Brush Control Panels,
and choose any of the following panels
which allow you to add Audio Expression.
Size — Opacity —  Angle —  Stroke Jitter —
Color Variability — Color Expression
Dynamic Speckles —  Grain —  Airbrush —
Liquid Ink — Particles- Common
Gravity Particles —  Spring Particles.
Select a brush.
Select a brush setting that you would like to add
Audio Expression to, for example, size.
Click the Audio Expression button.
In the Audio Settings panel, move the following
sliders:
Strength — adjusts the strength of the audio
signal.
Range — sets the range of the audio
expression.
Now play your music and get painting!
Color Variability and Size linked to Audio
Expression.
Now using a brush from the Audio Expression
brush category...
Adjusting the strength of an audio signal,
controls its impact on a brush.
If you link brush size to quiet audio, increasing
the strength will result in wider brushstrokes.
Conversely, if the audio is loud, decreasing the
strength will result in narrower brushstrokes.
In addition, you can set the range of the audio
expression to achieve
a wider range of brushstroke variation
(for example, minimum to maximum brush-
stroke width),
regardless of whether the audio is consistently
strong, low, or varies.